Joan Kandel: Hello.
Joan Kandel: Hi, you're Peggy
Peggy: Peggy, how are you
Joan Kandel: I'm well. I really like your glasses, Peggy.
Peggy: Thank you.
Joan Kandel: Sir, great.
Joan Kandel: Are those reading glasses, where they regular glasses, they're
Peggy: Reading have to have more time. I can't see.
Joan Kandel: Ya.
Peggy: I can't see my in front of my face.
Joan Kandel: Got it.
Joan Kandel: Well, I love them. They're great.
Joan Kandel: So, Peggy. I'm Dr candle.
Joan Kandel: I do. It's really nice to meet you.
Peggy: Nice meeting you too.
Joan Kandel: So where are you
Peggy: I'm in New Mexico.
Joan Kandel: I'm in New Mexico to where we're in New Mexico.
Peggy: I'm in silver. Silver City.
Joan Kandel: Okay, I'm on the other end of the state. I'm up in dole say
Peggy: Which is all the
Joan Kandel: Way up north. You know where that is.
Peggy: Yes, I do. I
Joan Kandel: Do I
Peggy: just moved here, two, three months ago from Los Angeles.
Peggy: Oh, wow. Yeah, it's a big move and right now I'm just getting into my house. So I'm in a motel room for two nights.
Peggy: Until my house ready
Peggy: So wow really easy.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that sounds a little crazy. Why Silver City. How'd you end up there.
Peggy: I'm, I'm, Native American, and my ancestors all came from were born and Silver City before it was Silver City.
Peggy: And I'm doing historical research on our family line and
Peggy: Nice. I decided to come here.
Peggy: I have a few family here too.
Joan Kandel: Haha oh that's fantastic. Well, that's great. When. What's your tribal affiliation.
Peggy: I'm sure a cow Apache
Joan Kandel: Oh, nice. Great. That's really great.
Joan Kandel: Well, I'm, I'm, I've been don't say I'm on the hickory Apache reservation.
Joan Kandel: Hickory Korea nation. Yeah, and
Joan Kandel: I've spent my whole career actually working for the Indian Health Service. I was on Navajo
Joan Kandel: For 17 years in Arizona. And then, and then I've been here on hickory Apache for like five years.
Peggy: Old that's, that's great. I was
Peggy: In the 90s. It was on White Mountain Apache reservation.
Joan Kandel: Oh yeah, no, that's great.
Peggy: Little there.
Joan Kandel: They sure do. Yeah, I have a good friend who I worked with in in Canada, Arizona, and he went to. He went to White Mountain.
Joan Kandel: A doctor
Joan Kandel: Were you there in the late 90s, early 90s.
Peggy: late 90s. I was Dr. Ray greed. I don't know if you know him.
Joan Kandel: I've heard the name. I don't know him, he, he
Peggy: He was instrumental in a lot of the clinics there and he's Navajo but he's great.
Joan Kandel: That's so great. That's really great. Do you know Dr Friedberg Matt redbrick
Peggy: No, no.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, he went there, it was maybe
Joan Kandel: It was probably 99 or maybe 2000 it may have been early 2000s, and he's still there.
Joan Kandel: Anyway, that's great. That's really neat.
Peggy: long road.
Yes.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: And and you were in LA for how long.
Peggy: 20 years
Joan Kandel: Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: Nate. I was born in LA.
Joan Kandel: So it is really small world. Yeah.
Peggy: Yeah yeah Ellie's getting very well. It's always been big but it's even bigger now.
Peggy: And yeah, really.
Peggy: pleasant to be in New Mexico with the more rural setting.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, I love New Mexico. It's just fantastic. So, Russia is a nice place. I like it.
Peggy: Yeah, it's different.
Peggy: Yeah, I kind of flipped out when I first moved here because it was only one main road and
Peggy: I was
Peggy: A. What did I get into
Joan Kandel: But I like it.
Ain't no la
Joan Kandel: Though, that's a different world. But yeah, it's a different pace and it sounds like it'll be a welcome welcome pace.
Peggy: Yes.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. So tell me about why you're here with with bright heart and how did you find out about bright heart.
Peggy: Well,
Peggy: I have had been followed in LA for a number of years with a physician, I was a chronic pain patient
Peggy: For a number of years. I was on a regimen exercise and I have
Peggy: Everything from morphine to bike it in the and then ultimately, I was put on methadone for pain and I, after being on methadone for less than a year, I decided to just was not going to work for me. It was not, it was just too much and
Peggy: I don't want too.
Joan Kandel: Much meaning.
Joan Kandel: Too much meaning what it is.
Peggy: Today too much, just my teeth were falling out and
Peggy: I was just not feeling well.
Peggy: And I felt really sedated.
Peggy: Uh huh. And as I was also
Peggy: Afraid of since I have some some sleep disorder. I was little bit afraid of taking method of leaping. You know, I don't know how how qualified that fear was but I'm
Peggy: Anyway, I had a brilliant idea that I would just go off all my medicine at that time.
Peggy: Oops, and
Peggy: And it was a disaster ended up in the hospital.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, when was that
Peggy: That was in
Peggy: About 2002
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Peggy: Okay. And I didn't stay in the hospital. They just, they didn't eat me. But they did refer me to a physician who is dealing with sudden tax time
Peggy: Okay. And he thought that that might be a good choice for me.
Peggy: And so we started on the phone via text back then. And it worked really well.
Peggy: Okay. Um, and I've been taking it ever since then, when we moved out here. I had done some research to make sure there were physicians and Silver City that could prescribe my medicine, but I got out here and they were all gone after me. They were listed
Peggy: Oh am
Peggy: I good yeah and there's nobody
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that list is not very accurate. And if they don't keep up with it.
Peggy: So, um, I ran out of my medicine. I had my primary care doctor out here. Dr. Ski he gave me a little bit.
Peggy: He couldn't prescribe a you know a month's worth, but he gave me a little bit to hold me over until I could see somebody else and I was panicking. I didn't know was gonna have to go to Santa Fe, or what excuse me I have bronchitis. Right now I'm that
Peggy: I happen to be. I work in medical regulatory and I happen to be working on telemedicine right now.
Peggy: Do. Okay. Safety report some telemedicine and I hadn't thought of you.
Joan Kandel: Know how am I
Thought
Peggy: It was just a kid was mad, and it was
Peggy: really fortunate. Fine.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right. No, that's fantastic because you're bright heart, it works so well for people who are you know out in underserved areas like you are
Joan Kandel: Absolutely.
Peggy: Yeah, I mean I my work has been with looking at clinics in India and Tele ICU.
Peggy: Effectiveness, and the mortality rates going down and
Peggy: That's great stuff is is blessed and, you know, it's great.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, really supportive. Yeah.
Peggy: So yeah, I'm patient
Joan Kandel: There you go.
Joan Kandel: Well, that's good. I'm glad you found us.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: I don't know if you you know this about bright heart but the bright heart the
Joan Kandel: The, the main focus is
Joan Kandel: Is opioid use disorder. And that's the main thing that we prescribe the the buprenorphine for and the Suboxone
Joan Kandel: But we also have a program in pain management.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: There's a, there's a doctor, Dr. Tracy Jackson. She's a pain specialist and she's really quite amazing. And she's been with bright heart for a while, but she just very recently got her new mexico license. So she's now starting to see our patients who have pain management issues.
Joan Kandel: And she's, she's wonderful she's really into mindfulness and yoga and different ways to help people manage their own pain and not relying
Peggy: Just on medication and then
Joan Kandel: Yeah, I figured you might be. And so I so I will be happy to get you into her groups. They do groups.
Joan Kandel: And I think it's every other week. They have a group. She won't be prescribing you any meds. I'll be prescribing the meds and so you'll do a group with me.
Joan Kandel: But then you'll also kind of alternate and do groups with her, which are really specific to pain management stuff. And that might help you to to help your, your pain.
Peggy: It's that would be great. I should have had that my primary care doctor has referred me to a surgeon
Peggy: In 2000 and this is something that I procrastinated because I'm afraid of having back surgery, I really didn't want to, but he
Joan Kandel: wants me to at least get a
Peggy: Console and he says that if I have the surgery that I might not have a pain issue.
Peggy: A hollow, but I've yeah
Peggy: A lot of back surgeries where you that doesn't happen that way.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it can go either way. What is the nature of your pain.
Peggy: I had a car accident and I was rear ended by a semi and I already had degenerative disc and spinal stenosis and
Peggy: After the accident. I started having some cervical problems. And then my lumbar pain just went through the roof so
Peggy: In a nutshell, it's degenerative disc disease spinal stenosis and herniated disc.
Joan Kandel: In the cervical or lumbar or the
Peggy: Number, the number is where the herniated is
Peggy: The cervical area.
Peggy: Is all i don't have a lot of pain there, but I have numb fingers on my left hand to my little finger in my fourth finger and numb. Now, and they've never come back from
Peggy: Totally accident.
Joan Kandel: Totally no
Joan Kandel: You don't feel even
Peggy: Ugly. Totally. I mean, I can, I can feel tingling.
Joan Kandel: Tingling. Okay, I got it.
Peggy: But the older I get the more this is becoming um it's really whittling away at my feeling of health.
Peggy: Yeah, and I really want to get on top of it. Now I'm 61 years old now and I need to get on top of it. I'm interested in yoga and trying to re acquaint myself with my body and
Peggy: Brain and not just rely on medication.
Joan Kandel: Right. Absolutely. Great. So, um, do you have an appointment with a surgeon
Peggy: With. I'm sorry.
Joan Kandel: With a surgeon
Peggy: Um, no. I have to call them and these given me a referral. We send a referral over to Dr.
Peggy: Surgical group in Tucson.
Peggy: Okay, and I'll be going over there.
Joan Kandel: Okay, so
Joan Kandel: Yes, I think we get you in with Dr. Jackson and what she does is she has a one on one APPOINTMENT WITH YOU LIKE THIS, TRACY Jackson is her name and
Joan Kandel: You should actually Google her. She did a TED talk, which you'll be very interested in
Joan Kandel: Yeah. So Tracy Jackson and her TED Talk is something like the hardest pill to swallow.
Joan Kandel: And so you can watch her watch her TED talk. And then you'll get to know you know her. Her mindset and and she's wonderful so I'll get you in with her. You can have a one on one with her and then get set up with her groups and
Joan Kandel: And, you know, talk to her about the surgical consult and, you know, even if you have the consult
Joan Kandel: You could probably share that with her and she could kind of interpret it and kind of see what the thinking is
Joan Kandel: Since she can't lay her hands on you.
Joan Kandel: Then at least she can see somebody else doing it you know that
Joan Kandel: Evaluation and then you know you could you could work with her on that and if your pain improves without surgery, then that's great. And if you need a surgical consults and that's that's what you do kind of see how you do.
Peggy: I'M GOING TO DO WHAT IT director, it takes at this point because my mobility is starting to become less than
Peggy: I'm having trouble. There's, I have to crawl up the stairs, because of pain or now so
Peggy: I used to walk 10 blocks a day.
Peggy: And that was just two years ago and now my hips don't feel like they're, they feel like they're out of place in my back just starts hurting in that lumbar region, and I can't, I have to turn around, go back home.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: Right yeah that's that's not a way to be. Yeah, so we'll see if we can get some help with that. And so in terms of the. Now, you mentioned Soviet texts were you on just the buprenorphine or the combination buprenorphine naloxone
Peggy: I've been on both
Peggy: Okay.
Joan Kandel: And you you do fine with the combination
Joan Kandel: Yes. Yeah, okay, and
Joan Kandel: And you have insurance that covers it.
Joan Kandel: Yes. Okay. Okay, good. And what's your dose.
Peggy: I take three eight milligram tablets in the morning.
Joan Kandel: Three. I thought I looked up the Prescription Monitoring Program and it said you were on 16 milligrams. No.
Peggy: No, I'm I'm 24
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: And how long have you been on 24
Peggy: Ever since I started taking it.
Joan Kandel: Hahaha
Peggy: You know what though, the last time that Dr. Steve my primary care doctor both needed a temporary prescription. I think right
Peggy: I mean,
Joan Kandel: That's what I saw.
Peggy: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: That's the one that I saw. So that's why I thought it was 16 so but you've but
Joan Kandel: You've been taking 24
Joan Kandel: Correct, even though it said 16. Okay. And have you
Joan Kandel: Have you
Joan Kandel: tried taking less to see how you do unless
Peggy: Yes.
Joan Kandel: And what happened.
Peggy: I don't feel as well. I feel when I go down. I've tried going down as low as eight milligrams. And I just, I have breakthrough withdrawal and um, I don't know if maybe I haven't given it long enough to
Peggy: Even out or I can deal with withdrawal is just
Joan Kandel: Sure. Right, that's understandable. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: And when you
Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: When you did that, when you did that experiment to see if you could handle the eight milligrams. How did you, how did you get from 24 to eight.
Peggy: I when I, this was my own experiment I started tightening down and I
Peggy: I went from three tablets to the next day or two tablets in the state on two tablets for like three days and then went down to one tablet stayed on one tablet for, you know, see how that was going to work. I think that this is a while ago.
Peggy: But something to that effect. Okay.
Peggy: Do it just really rapid Stairs, stairs to them.
Joan Kandel: That actually sounds pretty rapid to me.
Peggy: Is that rapid
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that sounds pretty rapid, you know, if you're gonna if you're going to be successful at at really tapering down, it needs to be a slow, very gradual taper so
Joan Kandel: You know, in your case, I think that it's very, very possible that you don't need 24 milligrams
Peggy: But
Joan Kandel: It would be a slow process to see if that's the case. So what I would suggest is actually that you do that you go like down by
Joan Kandel: At this level about two milligrams. So like to 22 milligrams and stay there for like two weeks.
Joan Kandel: And then go to 20 milligrams and stay there for two weeks because then you won't feel that dreaded withdrawal because it's horrible. And, you know, and that's just scary, but, you know, if you were to go down by
Joan Kandel: Here it's scary, it's just scary. So if you were to go down by, you know, one or two milligrams every couple of weeks. You could make progress and not really feel that maybe the first
Joan Kandel: One or two days, you might feel a little bit of, you know, very mild kind of withdrawal, but nothing like the bad stuff.
Joan Kandel: So,
Joan Kandel: So I would I would
Peggy: Be open to trying
Joan Kandel: Okay, I would invite you to think about that. And if you want to think about that. Now we can we can start you
Joan Kandel: Instead of at 24 at 22 and you and I are going to see each other every week.
Joan Kandel: And so we can kind of assess and if at any point you go down and you're like add that was horrible. And I'm not getting used to it and I want to go up. We can go back up. So it's not a scary proposition.
Joan Kandel: And I'm not going to like leave you on your own for a month to kind of be suffering it we would go gradually and we would stay in touch. So that if it feels like it's too much or you're not ready for the next jump because the last one was a little bit tough, that's fine. We could take
Peggy: One at a time.
Peggy: When I feel bad.
Joan Kandel: Well, sure that
Peggy: I understand a big panic.
And
Peggy: They have pain because I've had paid has been out of control before and I don't want ever experienced that again.
Peggy: Right, and I have had when I went to Israel for six months, I
Peggy: Lost my medicine in the airlines. Yeah. And I went 17 days without my sub you Tex.
Joan Kandel: Oh that's high level.
Peggy: living hell.
Peggy: Yeah. Mm hmm.
Joan Kandel: Oh my gosh, and then you're not at home and you're in a foreign land. Oh my gosh, yeah, no, we're going to avoid that at all costs.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, but you know, I do think, I mean I can imagine that that it may be enough for you to be on eight milligrams
Joan Kandel: You know and and
Joan Kandel: Be and be feeling the same way that you're feeling in terms of your pain control, especially in combination with with visiting with Dr. Jackson and maybe learning some techniques to really help with your pain actually help with the pain, not just you know mask it with with medications.
Joan Kandel: So,
Peggy: Um,
Joan Kandel: So yeah, I think that that would be if you're if you're willing to go down that road. I think that it would be nice to kind of start down that road and see, see where it takes us
Peggy: I'm absolutely willing. I also noticed over the years that I have kind of a flat aspect now.
Peggy: My emotional aspect is just not
Peggy: I'm not as creative as I used to be.
Peggy: Okay, it's the medicine.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, like a kind of wanted to
Peggy: Me.
Peggy: Mm hmm blunting. Thank you. Yes.
Peggy: Yeah, I feel blunted
Peggy: Yeah, and that's a really big incentive for me to start tapering down
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Well, good. So let's, let's do that. So when I do
Joan Kandel: Put your prescription in. If it's okay with you. I'll put it in for 22 milligrams instead of 24 milligrams
Joan Kandel: Which will be I'll prescribe the strips.
Joan Kandel: And so the strips can be cut and so that'll be two and three quarters strips every day instead of three strips.
Peggy: Sounds great.
Joan Kandel: Oh, good.
Joan Kandel: Let's do it. I mean, we'll see how we'll see how we do. And I have a good feeling. I think you're
Joan Kandel: Able to get done.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. And when we will take our time and if we find that you know you get down to like six milligrams, or four milligrams, then it gets really then we go really slowly take little you know little eights have a strip off every, every few weeks.
Joan Kandel: But if you find that you that you hit a dead end, you're not under any pressure to like go all the way off. You know, you go as low as you feel like you're functional
Joan Kandel: Because I believe that you that medications can help, but the lowest dose that's the lowest effective dose is the bestest to be so we'll find your lowest effective dose and if your lowest effective dose is nothing. Hallelujah. That's great.
Joan Kandel: But if it's not, it's not a
Joan Kandel: Failure, you know, it's, it's okay.
Peggy: I appreciate that I like, I like your way of thinking.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good.
Joan Kandel: All right.
Joan Kandel: While I'm on it. The other thing that I'm going to prescribe for you because I prescribe it for everybody that I prescribe buprenorphine to is a narc and kit.
Joan Kandel: Do you have an arc and
Peggy: Okay, you know what that zone.
Joan Kandel: Yes. You know what it is. Okay, so it's an it's a it's a nasal spray and it's just really helpful to have around. You know overdoses are so
Joan Kandel: Common, unfortunately, and I always carry one around with me in my purse, because you never know when you're going to find somebody sitting on a bench and they're like slumped over and you can't wake them up squirt the stuff in their nose and
Joan Kandel: You might save their life. Yeah. So I'm going to give
Peggy: You some people in my community carry them who work out in the fields and public health.
Joan Kandel: Yes, right. So it's a good thing to have. So I'm going to, I'm going to write for that as well. So don't be surprised when the pharmacist says here's your other medication and
Joan Kandel: And I'll they'll be refills on there. So if you ever had to use it and you need a refill, it'll be at the same pharmacy.
Peggy: Okay.
Joan Kandel: And I will, I will not be prescribing other medications for you. So the other meds that you take, you will get from your, from your PCP.
Joan Kandel: Right. Okay. What other meds. Do you take
Peggy: I take effects more
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Peggy: For anxiety.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. How much
Peggy: I take as an adjunct to that.
Peggy: Abilify
Okay.
Peggy: five milligrams. And I also
Joan Kandel: What's your dose of effects are
Peggy: 150 milligrams twice a day. So that's 300 milligrams
Okay.
Peggy: And let me see. I got
Peggy: HTTP. My hands were swelling. I don't take this all the time, this was just give
Peggy: Your reason
Joan Kandel: Okay, you don't have high blood. You're not taking it for blood pressure.
Joan Kandel: Nose for some swelling. Okay, and that's
Joan Kandel: And not always
Peggy: Not always one tablet by mouth daily 37.5
Peggy: Grams.
Peggy: Okay. And I think propranolol for heart palpitation
Okay.
Peggy: 20 milligrams twice a day.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Anything else
Peggy: I think that's good.
Peggy: Excuse me. I am a daffodil
Joan Kandel: Much okay. I'm okay.
Peggy: I'm have narcolepsy.
Joan Kandel: And tell me about your narcolepsy.
Peggy: narcolepsy, since I was a child I have slight cataplexy as well. I am wasn't diagnosed until I was an adult and I went to UCLA sleep study center because I was falling asleep at work, basically, I can't sit in front of a computer without falling asleep.
Peggy: Uh huh. And they did a
Peggy: Overnight sleep study and came up with narcolepsy. And so I've been on modafinil for a number of years now and it's helped me tremendously.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: What's your dose of that.
Peggy: 400 milligrams
Joan Kandel: Okay, you take it in the mornings.
Peggy: Yes.
Joan Kandel: And how is your sleep.
Peggy: My sleep is sound.
Peggy: Awesome. Yeah, I don't have sleep problems I I sleep is my friend.
Peggy: Good sleep well.
Wonderful.
Peggy: I can fall asleep standing up.
Joan Kandel: But the
Joan Kandel: But that medication helps
Joan Kandel: You know, no pets not but the meds help you with that.
Peggy: Oh, yeah.
Peggy: The daytime the daytime sleepiness. Yeah.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Okay. Great. Are you allergic to anything.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay.
Joan Kandel: And besides the things that we already talked about. Do you have any other medical problems.
Peggy: I have autoimmune hepatitis, that is in question now.
Peggy: In question was diagnosed
Peggy: I was diagnosed with autoimmune hepatitis and now
Peggy: My going in to have tests done all over again because
Peggy: They're thinking that was probably not autoimmune hepatitis.
Oh,
Joan Kandel: Go.
Joan Kandel: Ahead and
Peggy: Create liver function, since I was in my 30s, since I worked on the reservation. I worked there and I came back and I
Peggy: Was told I had a full blown hepatitis and I didn't. And ever since then I've had my enzymes to go up and down and up and down and up and down and everybody panics and then they go back down to normal again. Then I went
Peggy: To Israel again and I got very, it became very ill, and when I came back I was immediately to the emergency room and a doctor. So this is he thought it was autoimmune hepatitis and
Peggy: I had a lot of tests run the end there was some some issue about how conclusive. They were but they treated me as such, they gave me steroids for a year.
Peggy: Okay and I'm having any symptoms sense
Hmm.
Joan Kandel: Interesting. Okay, but you're no longer on steroids.
Peggy: No God now.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Okay, well that's a that's interesting, too. When are you going to go for the battery of tests.
Peggy: In the spring, I'm just having
Joan Kandel: Okay, are you going back to LA for that for that.
Peggy: Yeah I'm good with seniors.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, great.
Peggy: That's where my hematologist is
Joan Kandel: Perfect.
Joan Kandel: And no no viral hepatitis. No, no. Hep C or Hippie Hippie
Peggy: Or anything like that.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right. And I told you.
Peggy: My family this never thing.
Peggy: Okay, I don't know if it could have anything to do with the daddy never group will have problems with weight in American
Peggy: And we have specific
Peggy: Problem was here.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. Fatty Livers just so so common. Yep.
Joan Kandel: Do you
Joan Kandel: Gonna ask any other medical problems.
Peggy: No, I think then that just about does it
Joan Kandel: Okay, okay.
Joan Kandel: Oh yeah, they told you about the labs that bright heart. Yeah, they already ordered your labs and you have a plan to go get those done
Peggy: Yes, the labs are I already sent over my lab information and
Peggy: I think that they sent the lab request over to the lab.
Peggy: Grateful for that right after this.
Joan Kandel: Perfect. Yeah, that's great. Perfect.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Groovy.
Joan Kandel: Have you ever had any surgeries.
Peggy: Yes, I've had two C sections.
Peggy: And I've had
Peggy: My gallbladder removed.
Peggy: I've had an open ruin why
Joan Kandel: Why
Peggy: This is all
Peggy: Gastric Bypass
Joan Kandel: High
Peggy: I was
Peggy: As I said that obesity runs in my family and I was
Peggy: Really getting out of control my weight was just going up, up, up.
Peggy: And I decided that I didn't want to live with that.
Peggy: So the early 2000s, I am I was also becoming pre diabetic. At the time, I have a gastric bypass.
Peggy: Okay, and it's it's proven to be effective. I've gained back
Joan Kandel: About 40 pounds but
Peggy: That's not as bad as some I've seen and I have yet to become diabetic.
Peggy: A hard. I had a lot of complications with that. Okay. I ended up back in the hospital having a second surgery because I have a leak.
Peggy: Though, and I had that done at UCLA.
Peggy: And then after several months after that surgery. I had a hernia repair ventral hernia that popped out after my surgery.
Peggy: But I think that's all my surgeries.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: What year was the ventral hernia repair.
Peggy: I would see 2006
Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right.
Joan Kandel: And how many times have you been pregnant.
Peggy: Three.
Joan Kandel: Three. And how many
Peggy: Into life first
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Both, both C sections.
Peggy: Those two sections.
Okay.
Peggy: My children are adults now my son's 43 and my daughter is 38 I got a young start
Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: And a
Joan Kandel: Mother, but yes, that happens.
Joan Kandel: So how, how is their health. Their kids.
Peggy: They have a lot of the same health issues and I have
Peggy: Uh huh. I'm with my children have anxiety disorder.
Peggy: Uh huh. And
Peggy: My daughter has liver issues now that they're trying to sort out
Peggy: My son has a same heart palpitations, that I do with my anxiety presents the same way with him.
Peggy: Otherwise they're healthy.
Peggy: Other than other than these, these little family jewels that
Peggy: Sir, interesting.
Yeah.
Peggy: My daughter is diabetic.
Peggy: Okay. My daughter is diabetic.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Your daughter's the younger one
Peggy: Yes, she's there.
Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: And are they in LA.
Peggy: My son is in LA and my daughter came here with me to try and find a place of her own here.
Peggy: Okay, let me travel around
Joan Kandel: You okay great so you get along well
Joan Kandel: Yes, that's great.
That's great.
Joan Kandel: Mom and Dad still alive.
Peggy: Yes, I'm
Peggy: My mother is 83
Joan Kandel: Okay, she's
Peggy: Been diabetic for years and years. He's had liver problems for years and years. She has pacemaker, um, she's she had back problems similar to mine and then broke her hip and ended up choosing to stay in a wheelchair for the last 20 years which is
Peggy: A good thing.
Peggy: That she's still up and around and you know dimension, nothing like that. My father is 87 and in he
Peggy: Was an Air Force.
Peggy: Air Force officer and he's the kind of still goes out and runs so you know he's doing really well.
Joan Kandel: Good for him.
Joan Kandel: Well, that's awesome. And are they together.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: Yes, that been a long time.
Peggy: They were never together.
Joan Kandel: So I say,
Joan Kandel: Oh really,
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Wow.
Joan Kandel: Wow, great.
Joan Kandel: But yet you know him well.
Peggy: He was an officer in air force and she was an Indian girl just hanging around by the red and
Joan Kandel: White guy.
Peggy: Yeah, he's his family had 500 years in England.
Peggy: Wow, the turn of the century. So I'm having English and half Apache
Joan Kandel: Wow, what a trip. Hmm.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: It does he have another family.
Yes.
Peggy: Yes, I have three brothers and a sister.
Peggy: They're all military, they're all in Langley, West Virginia.
Okay.
Peggy: Do a God knows what.
Joan Kandel: Did your mom have other kids.
Peggy: Yes, I have two sisters
Peggy: Okay, younger sisters my
Peggy: One second, to me, is morbidly obese is a huge health issue for her.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Peggy: Well you she's in a wheelchair and
Peggy: Oh gosh, and she's, she's only 58
Wow.
Peggy: But she's been morbidly obese and she was in her 20s.
Okay.
Peggy: And my little sister is also has problems with obesity, but she's not
Peggy: Quite she's still mobile and
Peggy: Whatnot yeah but they're very traditional and
Peggy: They are not open to intervention medical intervention problems, my family. I'm the medical person in my family and I'm I
See
Joan Kandel: You've gone to the dark side.
Peggy: I went
Peggy: To the dark side. That's exactly right.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay.
Joan Kandel: Have you ever had problems with drugs and alcohol.
Peggy: No.
Joan Kandel: No, never.
Peggy: That's never been an agent for you.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Peggy: My mother was an alcoholic.
Peggy: And okay after seeing
Peggy: What happens with Indians mixing alcohol it with other Indians, I made a decision when I was about 17 that I would not drink and I haven't
Peggy: I think drink it all.
Peggy: Okay, um,
Peggy: So that's, that's pretty a hard line.
Peggy: I'm gonna stick with it.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, well, yeah, good. Any other drug use cocaine.
Peggy: Major
Peggy: I use marijuana
Peggy: I never used cocaine and this is when I was in high school, experimenting. I use psychedelics and things like that. But I mean this is over, like one summer.
Peggy: And I didn't really care for it. So I
Peggy: Ok continue
Okay.
Peggy: I've been actually I've had a lot of doctors suggested I try medical marijuana but I don't care for it. So I don't care for the sensation and I just
Peggy: I just don't care for it. It makes me confortable
Joan Kandel: Haha, and you've had the stuff that's just CBD and THC.
Joan Kandel: Yes.
Peggy: I can deal with that.
Peggy: But
Peggy: The others that indicates Akiva, and my
Peggy: My kids are carnivores.
So I
Joan Kandel: Like the feeling
Peggy: Yeah yeah
Right.
Joan Kandel: What about tobacco.
Peggy: Nicotine to smoke tobacco, I quit.
Peggy: And then I picked it up again at the end, an impulse and now I'm trying to quit again.
Joan Kandel: But for you.
Peggy: Pardon me.
Joan Kandel: I said, Good for you.
Peggy: It's harder. The third time that I'm quitting.
Peggy: That's hard. It's hard.
Peggy: My drawer. I don't have them on my arm today, which is not a good thing but rises. Something's got to happen before summer. This is my goal. I'm getting out of this cigarette thing.
Joan Kandel: This is bed.
Joan Kandel: No, it's really bad. I mean, if you're if you're concerned about pain and your wellness. That is the number one thing to get rid of.
Peggy: So it's just
Peggy: It's, it's so
Joan Kandel: It is so nasty. And it's just it just ravages the body.
Peggy: It does. And I can't consider my. I mean, I'm a medical professional and I'm outside smoking while everyone else is in the conference, you know,
Peggy: That yeah I'm tired.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, not okay, how much, how much do you smoke.
Peggy: I'm probably 10 to 15 cigarettes a day maybe
Joan Kandel: Yeah, and that's cut down
Peggy: That's cut down
Peggy: Yeah, I used to smoke a pack.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right. So yes, I totally support you in quitting.
Peggy: Next on the list. Yeah, that's
Joan Kandel: That's going to be the biggest favor that you could do for yourself of anything.
Peggy: I know, and I don't want to die a slow death of
Peggy: emphysema or
Joan Kandel: Yep, and it is, it's
Joan Kandel: It's the number one preventable killer number one killer.
Peggy: I know, I know.
Joan Kandel: Nobody thinks
Joan Kandel: It's, it's, it's an addiction. It's a really tough one.
Joan Kandel: It was really, really hard. So I'm glad you have the patches, because they can help.
Joan Kandel: So, but in order for them to help you have to put them on your skin.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah you know this. Okay, so
Joan Kandel: Right, you, you always wear a seat belt when you're
Peggy: Here.
Peggy: So to make it
Joan Kandel: Good their children. Good. You taught them well.
Joan Kandel: Do you have a partner.
Peggy: No.
Joan Kandel: No, because that been a long time.
Peggy: Long I lost my partner in 2011 he met someone and Native American men for the first time.
Joan Kandel: Oh, wow.
Peggy: He suddenly passed away.
Peggy: And he had an infection in a molar
Peggy: And it went into his heartfelt
Peggy: heartfelt
Peggy: And they couldn't pinpoint it and he passed away within a month.
Joan Kandel: Oh, I'm so sorry. Oh, that's devastating.
Peggy: It was devastating.
Joan Kandel: Oh, gosh.
Peggy: Yeah, I mean, open to, I would like to have somebody to be a companion, but I have so much work.
Peggy: That I'm doing now that keeps me. That's my partner. That's my
Joan Kandel: Yeah, marriage. Yeah. Well, there you go. Hopefully you get along with your partner.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: So,
Joan Kandel: Are you are you employed by somebody. Are you working in your own
Joan Kandel: Little boys. I work for the European Union.
Peggy: Yes, and I
Peggy: Work. I'm a clinical evaluation report writer medical writer and I write safety reports for the medical devices that are going out on market and universe, the European Union, their version of the FDA.
Peggy: Okay, I work remotely and which is very, very nice.
Peggy: Yes, get to work with teams from India to England to, you know, all over the place. And so I just, I've been primarily working cardiology and implantable devices.
Joan Kandel: That are hot at
Joan Kandel: Wait, is that why you went to
Joan Kandel: Israel twice.
Peggy: No, actually, my daughter was living in Israel.
Peggy: She married an Israeli
Peggy: And was going over 10 years and now they're all moving back to
The state.
Joan Kandel: Or city. Yes.
Joan Kandel: They're fleeing from Netanyahu
Peggy: We all leave
Joan Kandel: Absolutely. But in this country. We can't flee yet.
Peggy: Now,
Joan Kandel: From what's happening.
Peggy: Think about it, though.
Joan Kandel: Well, we certainly do Canada's looking awfully appealing.
Peggy: It is, I mean, the Galapagos Islands are living
Joan Kandel: Oh yeah, I went to the Galapagos last year and it's a fantastic place.
Joan Kandel: Oh really, yeah.
Peggy: I've wanted to go there since I was a child.
Joan Kandel: Me too. And I finally went. Maybe it was two years ago. It's just fantastic. Yeah, that would be a good place to just
Joan Kandel: Live
Peggy: No kidding.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, so I imagine that your work hours are fairly flexible.
Peggy: I work a lot
Joan Kandel: I can be very blessed by work nights.
Peggy: Days.
Peggy: We OK and OK.
Joan Kandel: So in terms of your groups, you could fit them in
Peggy: I know a week ahead of time what my main schedule looks like. And so I can always get out of a meeting and
OK.
Joan Kandel: OK. Okay, good. So, um,
Joan Kandel: Oh, that's great. So, um, so let's talk a little bit about when the groups are so
Joan Kandel: I have
Joan Kandel: A group that is Tuesdays at 430 in the afternoon from 430 to 530. Does that sound good to you.
Peggy: That sounds perfect
Joan Kandel: Oh, good. Okay, so I'll put you in that group.
Joan Kandel: And the first one is going to be tonight. Since it's Tuesday. But you don't have to come tonight. So next Tuesday.
Joan Kandel: That'll be your first group.
Joan Kandel: Really nice people in the group. The groups are an hour long
Joan Kandel: They consist of we there I'm there and the therapist is there. Her name is Dominique, she's wonderful and then there are anywhere between, like, five and 10 patients and we all meet on the computer and we all see each other.
Joan Kandel: And we start the group with a medical check in. So I go around and ask everybody how they're doing with their meds, if they need refills how their doses.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: And then we go into more therapeutic group sort of process that's led by Dominique
Joan Kandel: It's great. It's a really wonderful thing. And most people in the group.
Joan Kandel: Are struggling with addiction issues and they're in recovery, so it's it's slightly different than your story, but you know we're all people and we can all relate to each other.
Peggy: So they to the addiction aspects.
Peggy: Totally can relate
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Oh, good. How do you feel like that applies to you.
Peggy: Because I can't just go off of this medicine. I I'm I am tied to it. Yeah, gardenless what my intention was when I started taking it taking it to get high or do anything.
Joan Kandel: Right.
Peggy: But I am tethered to it.
Peggy: Right. That is
Peggy: That is a somewhat of an addiction.
Peggy: It's a dependent
Joan Kandel: Independent. So there is there is quite a difference, but it, but I understand how that there is a there's that feeling.
Peggy: Mm hmm.
Peggy: Yeah, yeah. And you're not alone. Ever.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. Right. Right.
Joan Kandel: So, so that'll be the group and then
Joan Kandel: Like I say, when we do get you. And there's a little bit of a waiting period to get in with Dr. Jackson, because she's just starting with the New Mexico patients so she has a bit of an onslaught.
Joan Kandel: But once once you get in with her for the individual visit, then you'll start seeing her in her groups and you can alternate her group with my group.
Joan Kandel: But she won't be giving you any prescriptions. So you'll get the prescriptions on the Tuesday groups.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: So, so that's how that will work.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And if you have any concerns or questions or or need a refill or need to to communicate something with me. The
Joan Kandel: The place to do that is that number that you call the local at the virtual clinic.
Joan Kandel: And that they're there 24 seven. So if you have any issues with anything related to bright heart call them and they will troubleshoot and get you help with their insurance issues or
Joan Kandel: Education issues, anything like that. That's your go to number that's also the same number that you'll call every week before group will call about a half an hour 20 to 30 minutes before the group.
Joan Kandel: So around four o'clock for our group and they will check you in, they will have you every week they have you do what's called a brief addiction monitor so they kind of have you rate yourself how you've been during the past week.
Joan Kandel: And and and you'll do that before every group. So that's a weekly thing.
Joan Kandel: And then what they'll do is they'll tell you what the number is to call
Joan Kandel: For the group because it changes every week, so that makes it so that you have to check in with them before you can attend to the group. So that's how we do that. So every week. It'll be a different number. Yeah, but their number will remain the same.
Peggy: Okay.
Joan Kandel: So that's how we do that.
Joan Kandel: And let me just, I'm gonna, I'm going to read off a bunch of symptoms.
Joan Kandel: I'll do a review of systems here and I'm just going to read off a bunch of symptoms.
Joan Kandel: Some of them we've already talked about. But if there's any here that we haven't talked about that apply to you just stop me.
Joan Kandel: Okay, okay, fevers, night sweats fatigue change in weight change in vision I redness I pain hearing loss, your pain ringing in the ears.
Joan Kandel: Bloody nose or nasal congestion, you said you have a bronchitis right now.
Peggy: Right now.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: sores in the mouth pain in the teeth pain in the neck which you have you already told me that
Peggy: Is that
Joan Kandel: Is that a big source of pain in the neck pain or is it more the low back.
Peggy: Its back
Joan Kandel: Okay, but also the neck. Sometimes
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: trouble breathing wheezing coughing
Joan Kandel: Chest pain, palpitations, you said, are those controlled with the okay so that's not something that you get very often.
Peggy: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: As long as you take the propranolol you do fun
Peggy: Yeah, as long as propranolol there. It's fine.
Peggy: Okay, this is a long term thing that I've had.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: belly pain, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation,
Joan Kandel: pain when you
See
Joan Kandel: Some constipation. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Blood in the urine pain with peeing changing hair changing skin easy bruising.
Joan Kandel: Muscle pain. You did say back pain.
difficulty walking
Joan Kandel: Headache
Joan Kandel: Dizziness numbness, you mentioned the hand the numbness
Joan Kandel: lack of coordination weakness difficulty speaking change in mood, depression, anxiety, you mentioned that in
Joan Kandel: Insomnia suicidal thoughts hallucinations, any of those
Peggy: No.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And how tall are you, and how much do you weigh
Peggy: And six and a half and I weigh 184
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And do you happen to know what your blood pressure or pulse were the last time you went and saw Dr.
Peggy: I believe it was 120 over 80
Peggy: Like, like, really.
Joan Kandel: Like stone cold normal
Peggy: Next book.
Peggy: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: Okay. Do you know what your pulse runs
Peggy: At
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Great.
Joan Kandel: Okay, I just want to do a very quick extremely limited physical exam because here I am. And there you are. So what I'd like to do is just look at it in your eyes. So if you could get the the look right into the camera.
Joan Kandel: Bring the bring it to you and just kind of look right into the camera.
Joan Kandel: Perfect. And now. Oh, that's great. And I'll look to your right.
Joan Kandel: Just with your eyes good and look to your left.
Joan Kandel: Good and up towards the top of your head.
Joan Kandel: Good and down towards your feet.
Joan Kandel: Great. Okay. Now pull back a little bit and let me take a look in your mouth.
Joan Kandel: Great. OK, and now go back a little bit further. And I just want to kind of watch you take a couple of breaths.
Joan Kandel: Deep breaths, hopefully won't make you cough.
Joan Kandel: Good. Okay. Great. And then if you could just kind of push on your on your belly, just to kind of push all areas of your belly and let me know if if that feels okay any pain with that.
Joan Kandel: Feel soft
Joan Kandel: Soft. Okay. Wonderful. That's great. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Thank you for that.
Joan Kandel: Do you have any questions for me.
Peggy: I know you've been very thorough
Joan Kandel: I'm very excited to
Peggy: Be in this program.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it's pretty great. Oh, good.
Joan Kandel: Good. That's great. Yeah, I think it's going to really help and
Joan Kandel: It's a, it's great to not have to go to the doctor's office. I mean, you still have to go the doctor's office, but not a different doctors office.
Peggy: 300 miles to the doctor's office.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that's a drag. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Oh. The other thing to tell you about is the, is that every about every month randomly. We do a urine drug screen on everybody.
Joan Kandel: So the way we do that is this first one, you'll go do that as part of your lab work.
Joan Kandel: But then, as you're in the program you'll actually just do those at home.
Joan Kandel: And what we do is we send you a
Joan Kandel: big bulky manila envelope in the mail and and we're so when you get that envelope do not open it. Don't even open the envelope.
Joan Kandel: So when you get that envelope call the virtual clinic and tell them, hey, I got this big bulky envelope. What do I do
Joan Kandel: And they'll, they'll watch you open it. They'll watch you take the little cup out they'll have you go to the bathroom and then they'll talk you through how to check it right there on the phone with them on the camera.
Joan Kandel: So, so do that all with them if you
Joan Kandel: If you open the envelope or the or the cup without them seeing it, then they'll say it's invalid and they'll have you go to the lab to do it. So it's just a big pain to have to do that so
Joan Kandel: So when you get the envelope just call them.
Joan Kandel: And I think that's all that I have to do. So I assume that you told them where your where your pharmacy is and that's probably in the computer for me to enter
Peggy: A pharmacy.
Joan Kandel: Yes. Okay. In
My
Peggy: Mind intake paperwork.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good. So I'll just make sure that it's Genoa and I'll put that in. After we get off the call here. So do you still have some of the
Joan Kandel: The subaqua
Joan Kandel: About from your doc.
Joan Kandel: Are you out.
Peggy: No. Yeah, please. Yeah, I've been out for two days.
Joan Kandel: Oh. Oh. Are you feeling really crappy
Peggy: Yes.
Peggy: Oh,
Joan Kandel: My gosh. Wow. Yeah. Okay, so, um, so yes, you will get that and we'll do the the 22 milligram dose and
Joan Kandel: It will certainly feel like an improvement to how you're doing now, since you're since you've been two days without it. So you probably won't even notice that it's a lower dose, because it's going to feel like such an improvement.
Joan Kandel: Right.
Joan Kandel: Right. Yeah, right. So, so we'll do that. And then I will see you next Tuesday at group and I will give your name to the to the schedulers to get on Dr. Jackson's list.
Peggy: Thank you so much.
Peggy: Yeah, you're still hopeful.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Good. Well, you should
Joan Kandel: Things are good things are looking up. Now you're in Silver City. There's your silver lining
Peggy: Right, ring the bell.
Joan Kandel: That's right. Okay, so, um, alright, so I'll sign off here and I'll prescribe that for you. And then I'll see you next Tuesday.
Peggy: Pleasure meeting you.
Joan Kandel: You too. Good luck. Moving into your new place.
Peggy: Thank you. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Bye bye.